Hello, and welcome to the
video for Module 1.
In this video, my key point is to really talk about
business systems that support your business objectives.
So, if you think about your business strategy, what we
want to do in the business case is to assess and
evaluate the degree to which our existing systems,
the as-is scenario, supports your business objectives.
Now, obviously, your context for that assessment
is: What are your business objectives?
Where is your business now?
Where is it heading?
Where do you want it to go?
That vision, the long-term
picture for the future.
And what's the gap?
And how do our systems actually
support that vision?
So, just a couple of basics
around systems.
First of all, when I talk about business systems, I
don't mean just the computer systems, or whatever
is automated in your factory's
production line.
I'm really talking about your business system as an
organism, the entire business, which includes
your culture, your leadership style, how things are
done around here — not just the tasks and tools and
processes that you follow.
All of these things, ultimately, might result in,
what we might call a computerised system, or an
automated system, or a factory's
production line.
And just bear in mind that a computer system is a subset
of your entire business system as an organism itself.
So, when we talk about business systems, I want you
to bear in mind that there are, really, two basic
models that we're working with.
One type is the linear process model, which
is really your input, throughput, output.
And within each step, or each task, in a long
process, you might have a series of tasks.
Each task itself can be broken down
into input, throughput, output.
Remember the concept of holons and each system being
a holarchy containing its own sub-systems as
well?
It's really just that: input,
throughput, output.
The other type of basic system can be modelled as a
circular system where, really, it's an infinite
flow.
It just keeps on repeating on itself, and you have
positive feedback where the system reinforces
itself, or there's negative feedback which
involves the system balancing itself.
If you think of the human
body and homeostasis.
In other words, maintaining your temperature, or
maintaining your energy levels, maintaining
your hydration levels in your body.
That's a concept of homeostasis where the system
relies on negative feedback to ensure that you
maintain the right temperature for,
you know, healthy survival.
And business systems operate
in much the same way.
Obviously, there will be exogenous or
external factors that cause changes.
If you're in a cold room, your body is going to
want to shiver to increase the temperature.
When a business hits an economic slump, your business
needs to shiver and do something to activate
its markets and, you know, generate more leads, or
exploit the customers that it has by having them
increase their basket size, or spend more
money over their lifetime with you.
So, those are ways that your business tries to
maintain its own homeostasis as an organism.
So, I want to tell you about a story with
one of my clients several years ago.
She was the owner of a business where they provided
a service in the interior décor and, sort of, furniture market.
But, essentially, the business was in a situation
where they had an overcapacity.
It was very soon after the
2008 economic crisis.
And they had an overcapacity where their demand for
their services had dropped down a little bit, and
she was in a situation where they were having their
staff work half-days, you know, they were working
short-time.
She was laying off a couple of people, but she still
had the infrastructure, the factory, where the
factory was underutilised and
staff were underutilised.
Revenue had, obviously, dropped down because
of the general market conditions.
So, the business's objective, the vision was: How do
we exploit the capacity and the infrastructure
that we have?
And how do we look after our people?
You know, we're not downsizing
or anything like that.
How do we turn that around
and grow revenues?
And in the conversation, in the coaching conversation,
many of the things that we spoke about; we
assessed their feasibility, you know, high-level options,
until we got to one point where I asked
her about her sales pipeline.
How does she manage from when a lead
is generated to the point of sale?
How do they manage that?
And I took a systems analysis approach to that
and asked, "Okay, what are the steps?"
So, these are the two entry points for a lead that's
been generated: either the customer phones in, or
it's a walk-in customer they — literally
walk into the showroom.
What happens next is, there's a
needs analysis that's done.
This is your next stage in
the quoting process.
The sales assistant will ask a couple of questions,
the customer will say it's this kind of
environment, this is a kind of feel that they want in
their home environment, and next step after that
is, "Well, here are the options."
Customer considers a couple of options, picks one,
picks two, or configures the solution in a
certain way and that, then,
turns into a quote.
And then I asked my client in the coaching
session, "So, what happens next?"
And the next step was, well, the customer will come
back and say, "This is your order number," or, "I
phoned in two weeks ago and asked
about this, you quoted me, sir."
You know, this kind of thing.
"This is the price.
Can you do it?"
And that was their system.
So, immediately I realised, well, maybe
there's a gap in the system.
Perhaps what they could do is follow up.
And maybe have, say, after a week, after two weeks,
after some sort of time frame, go back into their
quote book and see all the old quotes that have not
been accepted yet and turned into orders that have
been placed; can they follow up more actively
and be proactive with those customers?
She did exactly that.
She instituted another step in her process where they
would go, on a weekly or daily basis, they would
go into their quote book and look up
all the old unaccepted quotes.
Anything that was older than two weeks, that which
had not been accepted yet, they actually phoned
that customer.
And two things came out of this.
First of all, they got a lot more precise about the
data they were capturing from each customer, but
the big benefit was, after about three months, in
a follow-up coaching session, my customer- my
client said in the coaching conversation that, actually,
what happened, and this is what, this was
their business objective — to grow revenue —
they had increased revenue by 50%.
Such a simple change made such a big difference
in achieving the business objective.
You know, from the initial coaching conversation
of, "Hey, I need a coach.
Can you help me save the business?
I want to save the business from shutting down and
having to fire people and, you know, losing my livelihood."
We turned that business around and it was, you know,
one of my favourite success stories from a
coaching-success point of view, but from a business
systems point of view, can you see how a simple
tweak made such a big difference?
And, literally, it took them five minutes to just go
through that quote book and pick out all the old
orders, phone those customers,
and see what happens.
So, just a quick recap.
The basic principles are; you need to understand,
first of all, what the business objectives are.
You have to have a clear picture of
what is the business objective.
What's your vision?
Break that down into, maybe,
sub-objectives.
You cannot start a project without assessing what your
various options are, in relation to where you
are now and where you want to be.
Then, when you sit your business- Sorry, your project
objective, whatever the system needs to be
doing for the business, be clear
about the system's function.
That, then, drives your
project objective.
When you start your project, be clear that the
project is not going to satisfy the business objective.
Your project is going to build a system, implement
that system, and that's the project objective.
When that project is signed off, that's when you've
handed over your system, and it's now the
business owner or the systems owner's responsibility
to exploit that system in order to achieve
the business objective.
So, the project doesn't achieve the business objective;
the project's deliverable achieves the business objective.
Be clear on that.
If you're clear on those things,
then you can have a good approach to assessing
the degree to which your business systems
currently serve your business objective and what your
new business systems, or changes, need to do
to support the business objectives.
It's all about your systems.
Let's talk on the forum.